---
layout: post
title: 🎮 What game I would like to see on the Nintendo Switch
subtitle: There are so many ports that need to be published
illustration: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/8/8a/NintendoSwitchLogo.svg/1200px-NintendoSwitchLogo.svg.png
categories: [blog]
tags: [gaming, switch, retro]
comments: false
---

### The Nintendo Switch has proven to be a wonderful port machine and there is many games that are still missing a long-awaited port

<br>

I was born in the mid-80s, which mean that I had the chance to live through what I consider a golden era of video games. I still remember playing pacman on my old man's Apple II. Along the years, I was lucky to have a lot of different systems and later on I went on chasing what I was missing. 

The nostalgia lens or Rosy retrospection is a real phenomenon where in your memory you kindly remember what seems to be a better past. You know like: "In my time we didn't have DLCs and live services and always connected games". I might be wrong on that but I truly think that a lot of things were easier 20 years ago than right now. 

I put my PS4 away as it was collecting dust and I'm thinking about selling it in a few months. I was also watching the new systems reveals for the PS5 and Xbox and to be honest, it didn't spark any interest. Sure, the games looks fine for some of them but is it really something we never saw before? Maybe I'm getting too old for all of this. 

I digress. What made me think a lot about that in the past months is that I have been spending more time playing on my Switch than my other system. The reason is that a lot of the games I enjoy are ports of games that I had the chance to discover when they first came out. I know that the Switch gets a lot of criticism for being a *"port machine"* but to be honest, this is what I love about it. 

So before going further there is a point that we need to address right now: the Switch's system specs. Sure this system is glorified tablet but a lot a recent port made a good example of how this little machine is fit to receive port from previous generations. Have a look at **The Witcher 3**, **Divinity Original Sins 2**, **Doom 2016**, and more recently **Crysis**. So specs are not an issue for the games I'm going to discuss here. 

At first I wanted to do a complete list of the games I wanted to see ported but it’s a long task and would be a really long article. So let’s do this by generation of platforms and maybe add some along the way.
Most of the games I will list are favorites of mine so your opinions and wishes might be vastly different and I hope so. 

Let's do this.

------

#### The Fourth generation - SNES

This generation for me was ruled by the SNES system and already a lot of the game from this console have been ported in the last years so I'll focus on some gems that really need to be on the Switch.

**Chrono Trigger**

<center><iframe class="iframev" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OFmTAc50LR4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

Chrono Trigger takes place in a world similar to Earth, with eras such as the prehistoric age, in which primitive humans and dinosaurs share the earth; the Middle Ages, replete with knights, monsters, and magic; and the post-apocalyptic future, where destitute humans and sentient robots struggle to survive. The characters frequently travel through time to obtain allies, gather equipment, and learn information to help them in their quest[^ct].

How is it possible that this game is not on the Switch yet? It has already been ported and "remastered" for so many systems, I mean you can play it on: PS1, Nintendo DS, iOS, Android and Steam. And on top of that, Nintendo already has the SNES Virtual Console where they could easily put it and it would be a major success. The SNES virtual console is a major disappointment but it could be an article on it's own.

[^ct]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chrono_Trigger

**Final Fantasy IV, V and VI**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j_lr12kgGeU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

This is the same as for Chrono Trigger. These games have already been ported to so many systems. Why Nintendo and Square? Just do it already. And on top of that Final Fantasy 7, 8, 9, X and X-2 are available on the Switch. Moreover, we recently had the release of Dragon Quest I, II and III on the Switch. They really could have use the hyper generated by the release of FF 7 Remake to port this games to the Switch and gave people the full collection from Final Fantasy I to X. Just imagine that for a moment...
At the time of writing this article it came to me that Nintendo just announced the release of a bundle with Final Fantasy I, II and III called [Collection of SaGa](https://www.nintendo.com/games/detail/collection-of-saga-final-fantasy-legend-switch/). We are definitely going to see the complete saga on the console some day!

**The Mother Series**

<center><iframe class="iframev" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vGOEMCG2Ll4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

EarthBound takes place in the year 199X right after the events of Mother, in the fictional country of Eagleland, an obvious parody of America. The player starts as a young boy named Ness as he investigates a nearby meteorite crash with his neighbor, Pokey, to find his brother Picky. They find that an alien force, Giygas, has enveloped and consumed the world in hatred and consequently turned animals, humans, and objects into malicious creatures. A small, bee-like creature from the future instructs Ness to collect melodies in a Sound Stone from eight Sanctuaries to preemptively stop the force[^eb].

Mother or Earthbound in the US and EU is one of the best RPGS from the SNES era. This game is one of the genera defining title that stuck with a lot of people. Its influences in the indie scene can't be denied (think Undertale for example) and it has already been ported to several Nintendo systems: GBA, Nintendo 3DS, Wii U and is shipped with the Super NES Mini. There is absolutely no reason not to have this game on the Switch and it would be again a major success.

[^eb]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EarthBound

**Dragon Quest**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7RhPZk5ORQc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

With Dragon Quest I, II and III being released on the Switch not so long after the release of XI:S in 2019, it's another major series that need to be ported to the Switch. The missing episodes (IV to IX) like a lot of the games listed here have already been ported to other platforms (the DS and 3DS but also to Android and iOS). Just like Final Fantasy, having the complete series on the  Switch would be a major success, especially in Japan as they were lucky enough to have X (the MMO) ported on the Switch in 2017. But I'm sure the West would also be very receptive to a full port of the series with the success that XI encountered. And to add to that, the Builders series is also available on the Switch. So really, there is no excuses here.


------

#### The Fifth generation - PSX & N64

There is so much to talk about here and I'll have to keep myself focused. In these past years we saw the remake or remaster of a lot of games from this generation (i.e. Resident Evil, FF7 Remake, Crash Bandicoot, Spyro) but there are a lot that still need the attention. I'm not asking for a remaster but a port would be all I ask for!



**Metal Gear Solid**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YiTkXAu3nbg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

The year is 2005, six years after the downfall of Zanzibarland. A renegade genetically-enhanced special forces unit, FOXHOUND, has seized a remote island in Alaska's Fox Archipelago codenamed "Shadow Moses", the site of a nuclear weapons disposal facility. FOXHOUND threatens to use the nuclear-capable mecha, Metal Gear REX, against the US government if they do not receive the remains of Big Boss and the ransom of $1 billion within 24 hours. Solid Snake, a former Green Beret and a highly skilled special operations soldier engaged in solo stealth and espionage missions, is forced out of retirement by Colonel Roy Campbell to infiltrate the island and neutralize the threat[^mgs].

This absolutely needs to happen. It was one of my first game when I got my PS1 back in the days. I spent so much time playing an replaying this game that to this day I still remember about every line of dialogue. None of the Metal Gear games have been ported to other systems than PlayStation systems and PC with on exception: the release of MGS2 on Xbox. 

There is so much love for this game and the whole series all around the world that I don't know why Konami is not doing the effort to port it. 

[^mgs]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metal_Gear_Solid_(1998_video_game)#Plot



**Vagrant Story**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wDiZNuAkqz0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

The game takes place in the fictional kingdom of Valendia and the ruined city of Leá Monde. The story centers on Ashley Riot, an elite agent known as a Riskbreaker, who must travel to Leá Monde to investigate the link between a cult leader and a senior Valendian Parliament member, Duke Bardorba. In the prologue, Ashley is blamed for murdering the duke, and the game discloses the events that happen one week before the murder[^vs].

This is one of the best RPG that the PSX was blessed to have. An unique story and world with a brilliant DA and soundtrack. The gameplay might have been a little bit hard to master but it's one of my favorite game from this generation. This game was never release outside of the PlayStation system (PSX, PSP, PS3). Not only porting this game to the Switch would be a great addition to its catalogue but I think it would also help to have this game archived somewhere for the future years before the only one to play it is via emulation.

[^vs]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vagrant_Story



**Castlevania Symphony of the Night**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uE7dez4sLJo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>


Castlevania: Symphony of the Night begins during the ending of the previous game in the series, Castlevania: Rondo of Blood, where Richter Belmont confronts and defeats Count Dracula. Four years later, in 1796, Richter goes missing and Dracula's castle reappears.Alucard, Dracula's dhampir son arrives at the castle to destroy it[^csotn].

This is another gem from the PlayStation era that is still a fan favorite, and of course one of mine. And to add to that this game is with Super Metroid, the roots of the famous *Metroidvania* genre that is vastly popular now, especially among indie developers. The game has recently been ported to Android and iOS with absolutely no announcement up until the release date. One can hope that the PS4 port (Symphony and Rondo of Blood bundled) will someday be shadow ported to our beloved Switch. 

[^csotn]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Castlevania:_Symphony_of_the_Night#Plot



**Ridge Racer Type 4**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PMZ872rsa90" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

Ridge Racer Type 4 is in my opinion one the best arcade racing game ever released. The gameplay focuses on two type of dire style: Grip and Drift that change the way you will have to engage on the circuit. Basically you either drift while turning or you powerslide and to do that you need to manage braking and accelerating at the right moment. Their is a GP mode that serves as a story mode where you have to chose a driving team amount 4 of them but also between 4 car constructors. Depending on your choices the game will be harder or easier with some team being able to provide you with the fastest car and some struggling to stay in the race. Progression is based on unlocking new cars after each step in the GP and depends on your position at the end of the heat. Meaning that being 1st place on every race will grant you the best cars while being 3rd or 2nd will leave you with worse cars to race.

I didn’t play many racing games in the last two decades and it might be because RR:Type 4 really spoiled the genre for me. A Beautiful DA with Gouraud shading, an awesome soundtrack, excellent gameplay, lot of content including secret cars, and I can keep on distributing praises to this game. I always preferred arcade racer and felt them more fun to play in comparison to racing simulation. I’m sad that Bandai Namco let the franchise die as it would have be a serious competition to the few IPs that still exists today.

Anyway, I don’t think that a simple port would be enough for this game and I would rather see a remastered version with improved graphics and resolution to do justice to what might be the most praised episode in the serie.


**Tenchu I & II**

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HiP3WujoXrE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

One of the other great stealth games that came in 1998 on the PSX was Tenchu 1 that let you live the life of a silent ninja assassin in feudal Japan. I’m sure that for the ones who played it at the time you remember the stealth kill, taking the roofs with your hook and just trying to understand how to progress through the levels. It was a really good game for its time. I never had the chance to play the sequel but I read that it’s one of the best game on the PSX. Like for Ridge Racer T4, I don’t think that a simple port would be enough and at least the first game would need a lot of QoL improvement.


All right, I’m gonna stop it there or the time. My next titles will be in a future article and we might be coming back to the PSX as they are so many good games on this platform. 