---
layout: post
title: Resident Evil 25th Anniversary on Linux
subtitle:  The legendary saga played on Linux
illustration: https://www.residentevil.com/reverse/assets/images/index/firstView/logo-25th.png
categories: [blog]
tags: [resident evil, linux, proton, tuto]
comments: false
youtubeId:
---

### Let's celebrate Resident Evil's 25th anniversary on Linux

---

I love Resident Evil. The first one came out when I was about 11 and it was my first time discovering the survival horror genre with what a zombie apocalypse would be like on my PS1. I remember the days playing RE1 - Director's Cut with my best friend. The jump scares, the tank control, the Manor, the cheeky intro cinematic and all that together. 

Now, 25 years later with an arm long list of game in the series, there is no better time than now to test them under Linux. Especially since all of the main line games are on Steam and work with Proton. Some of them do need a little fix but they work great. The only one I'm not able to test here is Resident Evile - 0 as I don't have it in my collection right now. 

Let review the fix needed to run some of them.

#### Prelude

Before testing all of this game yourself, here is what you need to have on your system beforehand to start quickly: 

* have wine installed 
* have winetricks installed
* have protontricks installed

Now, let's go into the survival horror.



#### Resident Evil - REmake

This one was released several time, first on the Gamecube in 2002 and then got ported through time on several systems (Wii, PS3&4, Windows, Xbox 360 & One and lately on the Switch). If you loved the original game, this remake is a mark of love from Capcom and Shinji Mikami as they really did a beautiful remake rather than just a port of the initial game. 

The only "problem" that this game have running on Linux is the need of Windows Media Player to display ingame cutscenes. Unfortunatly, without it you are not going to be able to start a new game.

To run in on Linux with Steam Proton you'll need to do 2 things: 

* Force the use of Proton 5.0-10

* Run the game a first time. You should see the Capcom logo and then a black screen

* Install WMP11 via this command: 

  ```
  protontricks 304240 -q wmp11
  ```

Now let it do it's thing and when the installation is complete, you can just click play and enjoy the game.



#### Resident Evil 2 - Remake

This is one of the most recent remake of the game released in 2019 on the most modern systems. Just like RE1 - REmake, it's considered as being a faithful remake of the original with new implementations that make the game even better than it's original. 

My recommandation here is to use the latest version of Proton Glorious Eggroll (6.1-GE2 at the time of writing)



#### Resident Evil 3 - Remake

Ok, this one is definitely not a fan favorite and I get why. The original RE3 - Nemesis is absolutely one of the best game ever made for me. Returnin to playing Jill, this time in Raccoon City, about at the same time as the event in RE2 with Leon and Claire are occuring and to top all that, having Nemesis chasing you around town with the option to fight or flee... That was a blast to play this game. A lot of new things introduced were so good at the time (new control options for Jill, crafting bullets). It was already a short game, but with enough content that you would enjoy it for a long time. 

Now the remake. Well it's based on the same enging than RE2 - Remake so, it's a beautiful game. But they changed the physics (no more dismembering zombies). The original gave you the choice to fight or flee in front of Nemesis but now you just, follow the scripted event. Anyway, it's still a good game but it really feels like a downgrade both from the original and from what RE2-Remake propose. 

To run it on Linux: 

* use a version of Proton anterior to 5.0 and use DX11
* use a Proton GE above 5.11



#### Resident Evil 4 - Ultimate HD Collection

I remember playing this game for the first time on the Gamecube. The new look of Leon, the change from tank control to third person / first person. The new setting in Spain. At first I was a little bit wary and didn't quite like it. Then it clicked, and then I had a really, really good time. The decision made by Capcom to evolve the game into something more action oriented was a surprise at first but they nailed it with RE4.

Now on Linux, it runs out of the box with Steam Proton.



#### Resident Evil 5 

This one clearly not one my favorite. I didn't like the way Capcom made it to be very action orientated and less survival but with that came co-op play and that's what saved the game for me. However, at the time it came with the atrocious "Game for Windows Live" and I don't know why, for the love of god, to this day you still need to manually fix this horror with a fan made patch...

To play it on Linux follow the same instruction as for RE1-Remake: 

* use Proton version 5.0-10

* run the game a first time and enjoy the black screen

* install WMP11 with this command line:

  ```
  protontricks 21690 -q wmp11
  ```

* use [this patch](http://www.sb-online.org/maluc/index.php?did=bh5fixes) to remove Games for Windows Live, which is just a matter of replacing the original files with the patched ones in the install directory



#### Resident Evil 6

This one is strange for me. It felt like a conclusion to the saga were Capcom gave you the opportunity to play as some of the main protagonists one last time before telling it quite. The scenario is not that great, the gameplay is not that great but it's visually good and the co-op is still present so you can suffer through it with a buddy at least. Anyway, is it running on Linux ? Same as for RE1-REmake and RE5: 

* use Proton version 5.0-10

* run the game a first time and enjoy the black screen

* install WMP11 with this command line:

  ```
  protontricks 221040 -q wmp11
  ```

* from protondb, some users report that if you have audio crackling you can add this launch options to Steam:

  ```
  PULSE_LATENCY_MSEC=150 %command%
  ```



#### Resident Evil 7

Ever wanted to spent a few days with your SO, in a beautiful mansion far from everything. Having colorful hosts that will take care of all of your needs. Enjoy the food and drinks from the countryside ? 

RE 7 is for you. All of that for the first time in first person in a mainline Resident Evil game. Capcom tried a new formula and they succeeded in re-inventing the way we play a Resident Evil game.

Now what about Linux? Install and click play. That's it. What else do you need? 

------

If you visit this site often you know that I always provide footage of how the games runs on my system. Once again, here we go:
