---
layout: post
title: nvFBC for Ubuntu
subtitle: Who needs shadowplay now
illustration: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/fr/4/47/Nvidia_(logo).svg
categories: [blog]
tags: [linux, gaming, nvidia]
comments: false
youtubeId:
---

### 🎥 Use nvFBC to record or stream your gaming on Linux 

---

Since I started creating content on Linux it got to me that I had a hudge problem with performance while recording. Especially when I wanted to showcase how some game were runing and I don't have the posiblilty to setup a recording computer on top of my gaming computer. Basically if you are using an Nvidia GPU you might be/are familiar with ShadowPlay, Nvidia's hardware-accelerated screen recording dedicated to GeForce GPUs using nvFBC.

Now, with wayland being more supported more than ever and even implemented with some distros, there are solutions to have good capture performance on Linux (pipewire with OBS 27 for example). In my case, I'm a dinosaure. I'm still using Ubuntu 20.04.3 with it's LTS kernel (5.4) and Xorg. So no wayland for me until I really decide to get myself into upgrading.

Anyway I want to use nvFBC to record and stream my games with OBS and ditch SimpleScreenRecord (even if I love it). And after looking out for a solution I watch LinusTechTips' Anthony last video on installing Linux. Ususal stuff from Anthony until he showed a way to patch and compile a plugin for OBS to do excatly what I wanted to do.  

So basically this article is just a way to have anything already presented in Anthony's video in a single article with code lines ready to be CCed.

Before starting, as always, you should make sure that your system is updated and you have the latest drivers available for your system

1. Patching Nvidia's drivers ([github/keylase](https://github.com/keylase/nvidia-patch))

Clone or get the files for keylase's repo https://github.com/keylase/nvidia-patch and in the terminal:

```bash
$ sudo ./patch-fbc.sh
```

2. Install [OBS](https://obsproject.com/download)

Open Broadcaster Software, do I need to present it? I'm sure most of you know what this is about and if you don't I invite you to read their website. Make sure that you have ffmpeg installed.

```bash
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:obsproject/obs-studio
$ sudo apt install obs-studio
```

Now we are going to compile the nvFBC plugin for OBS but before that we need to create the folder architecture for it. You can use your file manager if you want but command line is faster: 

```bash
$ mkdir -p ./config/obs-studio/plugins/nvfbc/bin/64bit
```

3. Compile obs-ncfbc plugin [gitlab/fzwoch](https://gitlab.com/fzwoch/obs-nvfbc)

We are close to the end and the only thing left is to compile the plugin created by [Florian Zwoch](https://gitlab.com/fzwoch). Clone it or get the archive here: https://gitlab.com/fzwoch/obs-nvfbc

A little bit of prep before compiling as you might need some additional tools: 

```bash
$ sudo apt install libgl-dev libobs-dev libsimde-dev meson ninja-build
```

libsimde-dev is not availabe on 20.04.3 but I was able to compile without it anyway. 

Now let's compile, go to where you cloned or extracted the archive and then:

```bash
$ meson build
```

```bash
$ ninja -C build
```

And copy the freshly created plugins to OBS

```bash
$ cp nvfbc.so ~/.config/obs-studio/plugins/nvfbc/bin/64bit
```

4. Back to OBS to add the new source and check parameters

If you used OBS before you now how to do it. In you scene just add the newly added NVFBC Source and select your screen if you have more than one. 

Don't forget in your parameters to check that you are using NVENC encoding and if you don't know how, Nvidia published a very handy guide right here: https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/guides/broadcasting-guide/

And voila, happy recording/streaming at highframe with low CPU usage on your favorite OS.
