---
layout: post
title: Returning to Monster Hunter World
subtitle: A serious performance drop when using proton
illustration: https://bit.ly/3lyANME
categories: [blog]
tags: [monster hunter,proton,linux]
comments: false
youtubeId:
---

### The latest patch for Monster Hunter World: Iceborne induced a serious performance drop with proton

### <br>

---

With Monster Hunter Riqse releasing at the end of the month, I wanted to dive back into Monster Hunter World. In [my last article](https://solwhitehorn.github.io/monster-hunter-proton/) I described how I had rather good performance using the custom Glorious Eggroll version of proton.

Back in May 2020, on the base game I was playing at a near stable 60 FPS with the maximum settings. I was able to go through most of the game and went into Iceborne where I had a really good time. I did almost everything the game had to offer apart from Fatalis and AT Velkhana.

Anyway, I went back into the game to slay some wyverns. To my big surprise I'm now hitting somewhere between 27 to 30 FPS at max settings and barely around 45 to 50 FPS at medium settings.

I tried several things such as:

* shifting from Proton-5.8-GE-2-MF to the latest [Proton-6.1-GE-2](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/proton-ge-custom/releases/tag/6.1-GE-2)
* using the current Proton version
* disabling Steam's overlay
* verifying the game file integrity

Nothing changed, the drop in performance is absolutely massive. Going through the net gave me little to no answers apart from the fact that a lot of people are reporting on the performance issues, both on Linux and on Windows (especially after searching the Steam forum). Apparently performance degraded as well as VRAM usage went up just after the Alatreon update. So my guess is that it has nothing to do with Proton and it's one of the latest patch that created that huge performance drop. It's a shame to went from stable 60 FPS to something really not enjoyable at less than 30 FPS. 

Here is some footage taken with the latest Proton GE (6.1) and the latest version of the game (15.11):

 