---
layout: post
title: Metal Gear Linux
subtitle: 34 years of Tactical Espionnage Action
illustration: https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/metalgear/images/e/e2/FOXHOUND_Logo.png
categories: [blog]
tags: [linux, emulation, steam, lutris]
comments: false
youtubeId:
---

### METAL GEAR LINUX

---

#! write article introduction

It's been 34 years since the first release of Metal Gear on the MSX and now, more than ever, there is no better time to try and live the full experience of the saga. 

There is so much to say about Metal Gear that I don't even know where to begin. You can't deny that the series will last forever in the pantheon of stealth games. But more than the gameplay, the story and the themes conveyed through the different episodes are able to resonate will all of us on different levels.

I have always been a fan of the games. Metal Gear Solid was my first game on the PSX, and that dates back to 1999



### Linux options

Depending on the title, you have a few routes you can take to play the games and I summarized all of the games in one table for you. 

Let's have a look at the **mainline** games first:

| Title                                    | Original platform | Emulation | Wine  | Proton |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------------- | --------- | ----- | ------ |
| Metal Gear                               | MSX2              | ✔         | ✔ GOG |        |
| Metat Gear 2: Solid Snake                | MSX2              | ✔         | ✔ GOG |        |
| Metal Gear Solid                         | PSX               | ✔         | ✔ GOG |        |
| Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance            | PS2               | ✔         | ✔ GOG |        |
| Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence          | PS2               | ✔         |       |        |
| Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots | PS3               | ✔         |       |        |
| Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker           | PSP               | ✔         |       |        |
| Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zero          | PS3/PS4/XBOX/PC   | ✔         | ✔     | ✔      |
| Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain     | PS3/PS4/XBOX/PC   | ✔         | ✔     | ✔      |

As you can see from the tables you have a lot of options to play but most of the time you are going to use emulators to enjoy the games. Here comes the long list of possible way to play each games with my little recommendations and how to. 

**Metal Gear (1987) **

- emulating the MSX2, comodor 64 or NES version

- emulating Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater Substance disk 2 on PS2

- emulating Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater from the HD or Legacy version on PS3

- installing the GOG version with Lutris using this installation script [here](https://lutris.net/games/install/27149/view) (recommended)

  

**Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake aka Snake's Revenge in the west (1990)**

- emulating the Japanese NES version (recommended)

- emulating Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater Substance disk 2 on PS2

- emulating Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater from the HD or Legacy version on PS3

- installing the GOG version with wine

  

**Metal Gear Solid 1 (1998)**

- emulating the PS1 version (recommended)
- emulating the PS3 version
- installing the GOG  version with Lutris using the installation script here. I don't really want to recommend this way but it's the only *legal* way to do so it you don't already own the game. My main grip is that to accommodate the PC port they had to modify some mechanics altering the original experience of the game. 



**Metal Gear Solid 2 : Sons of Liberty / Substance**

- emulating the PS2 version (recommended)
- emulating the HD remake from the HD or Legacy compilation on PS3
- installing the GOG version with wine, and this one is not straight forward and I would not recommend it for the fact that it's the 2003 pc port of the game that has a lot of issues and requires a fan made patch to run correctly. I suggest following this guide if you want to go this way: 



**Metal Gear Solid 3 : Snake Eater / Subsitence**

- emulating the PS2 version (recommended)
- emulating the HD remake from the HD or Legacy compilation on PS3



**Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriot**

- emulating the PS3 version



**Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker**

- emulating the PSP Version (recommended)
- emulating the HD remake from the HD or Legacy compilation on PS3



**Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zero**

- emulating the PS3 version
- PC port with Steam Proton (recommended)



**Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain**

- emulating the PS3 version
- PC port with Steam Proton (recommended)



Wow, so that's quite the list. My general recommendation is that when possible, I would suggest to get the game the legal way and try to run them using either WINE, Lutris or Steam Proton. Unfortunately, as Konami does not really care about game preservation you will have to use emulators at some point to play specific entries (MGS3, Peace Walker and MGS4). 

Going the emulation way, there is some things that you can do to make your life easier: 

- Use liberetro and RetroArch to emulate the NES, PSX and PSP with your preferred cores
- If your config is good enough, use RCPS3 and emulate the HD edition or the  Legacy Collection that contains MG1, MG2, MGS1, MGS2, MGS3 and MGS: Peace Walker. This way you can enjoy the PS2/PSP games running at 720p, 60FPS with a 16:9 ratio.

My only grip is that MGS4 requires quite a good configuration that unfortunately I don't have. You can find a lot of videos on youtube of people showcasing it with the proper CPU and GPU. To see if new updates on RPCS3 makes any differences in the future...



