---
layout: post
title: Returning to Monster Hunter World
subtitle: A serious performance drop when using proton
illustration: https://bit.ly/3lyANME
categories: [blog]
tags: [monster hunter,proton,linux]
comments: false
youtubeId:
---

### The latest patch for Monster Hunter World: Iceborne induced a serious performance drop with proton

### <br>

---

With Monster Hunter Rise releasing at the end of the month, I wanted to dive back into Monster Hunter World. In [my last article](https://solwhitehorn.github.io/monster-hunter-proton/) I described how I had good performance using the custom Glorious Eggroll version of proton. Interestingly enough, this is the most watched video on my YouTube channel

Back in May 2020, I was playing at a near stable 60 FPS with graphics set to the max on the base game. While recording I was averaging around 45 to 50. I was able to go through the game and went into Iceborne where I enjoyed the new content and the constant updates. I did almost everything the game had to offer apart from Fatalis and AT Velkhana.

Today I went back into the game to see if I was still able to slay monsters and maybe have enough motivation to have a go at Fatalis. To my big surprise I'm now hitting somewhere between 27 to 30 FPS at max settings and barely around 45 to 50 FPS at medium settings. Recording makes everything worse and in some areas the game is even barely playable. Bare in mind that my rig is exactly the same as back in May...

I tried several things such as:

* updating to the latest Nvidia drivers;
* shifting from Proton-5.8-GE-2-MF to the latest [Proton-6.1-GE-2](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/proton-ge-custom/releases/tag/6.1-GE-2);
* using the current Proton version;
* disabling Steam's overlay;
* verifying the game file integrity;
* moving the file to another SSD;

Nothing changed, the drop in performance is absolutely massive. Going through the net gave me little to no answers apart from the fact that a lot of people are reporting on the performance issues, both on Linux and on Windows (especially after searching the Steam forum). Apparently performance degraded as well as VRAM usage went up just after the Alatreon update. So My guess is that it has nothing to do with Proton and it's one of the latest patch that created that huge performance drop. The ultimate test would be to boot up windows and see how the game performs there, but I’m not going to bother.

Here is some footage taken with the latest Proton GE (6.1) and the latest version of the game (15.11), the difference with my first video is stunning:

 